docs: Deploy a Custom Pack - Update [Tutorial] (#1828)
spectrocloud/librarium: docs/docs-content/registries-and-packs/deploy-pack.md

---
sidebar_label: "Deploy a Custom Pack"
title: "Deploy a Custom Pack"
description: "Learn how to deploy applications to a Kubernetes cluster with custom add-on packs. Deploy your custom pack from the Spectro Registry or an OCI registry. Learn how to get started with Palette’s custom packs and reuse them in multiple deployments."
icon: ""
hide_table_of_contents: false
toc_min_heading_level: 2

> toc_max_heading_level: 2

Reviewer: Are these required? You have quite a few H3 headings

Author: Oh, that's true! Thanks for catching this.

Author: Actually, I need to keep it as it is because I am using tabs in the **Create a Cluster Profile** section, and the headings got messy.

- Enterprises can add proprietary Kubernetes applications to a custom add-on pack.

In this tutorial, you will create a custom add-on pack to package a sample Kubernetes application, [Hello Universe](https://github.com/spectrocloud/hello-universe#hello-universe), and deploy the application to a cluster. You will learn to create the pack in two ways: using manifest files and Helm charts. 

> After defining the custom pack, you will set up a new registry server or leverage an existing Open Container Initiative (OCI) registry. Then, you will publish the pack to the registry and configure the registry server in Palette. Lastly, you will create a cluster profile that contains your custom pack and apply the profile to a cluster using either Palette or Terraform. 

Reviewer: Should these steps be in a numbered list, since they are numbered on the diagram?

Author: So, these steps don't match exactly the steps displayed in the diagram. For example, we don't have the registry set up present in the diagram, but we have it in the text. I added the 'sequential' word to improve the understanding.

The following diagram illustrates the steps required to successfully complete this tutorial.

> ![Architecture Diagram of the Deploy a Custom Pack Tutorial](/tutorials/deploy-pack/registries-and-packs_deploy-pack_architecture-diagram.png)

Author: Yes. I zoomed in, increased the font size, and changed the desktop icon (because I realized I was using an icon with a license).

If you opt for an ECR OCI registry, you will require the following.

- An AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) user with the following permissions.

  - `ecr:CreateRepository`
  - `ecr:InitiateLayerUpload`
  - `ecr:CompleteLayerUpload`
  - `ecr:InitiateLayerUpload`
  - `ecr:PutImage`
  - `ecr:UploadLayerPart`
  - `ecr:BatchCheckLayerAvailability`
  - `ecr:ListImages`
  - `ecr:DescribeImages`

:::caution

There could be AWS expenses associated with this tutorial. After completing the tutorial, make sure to delete the infrastructure to avoid additional charges.

:::

## Set Up the Tutorial Environment

In this tutorial, you will work in a Docker container pre-configured with the necessary tools. Alternatively, you can choose to practice the tutorial in any `linux/amd64` or `x86_64` environment by installing the [required tools](https://github.com/spectrocloud/tutorials/blob/main/docs/docker.md#docker) and cloning the [GitHub repository](https://github.com/spectrocloud/tutorials/) that contains the tutorial files. To initialize the tutorial container, follow the steps described below. 

> Start Docker Desktop on your local machine and ensure that the Docker daemon is available by issuing a command to list the currently active containers.

Reviewer: Should we add a short sentence on what the learner will see if the daemon is not started? I think it's worthwhile, since without this, they are dead in the water.

Author: Done!

```bash
docker ps
```

Download the `ghcr.io/spectrocloud/tutorials:1.0.9` image to your local machine. This Docker image includes the necessary tools. 

> ```bash

Author: Updated to 1.0.11 :)

If the port 7000 on your local machine is unavailable, you can use any other port of your choice. 
<br /> 

:::caution

Wait to exit the container until the tutorial is complete. Otherwise, you may lose your progress. 
Do not exit the container until the tutorial is complete. Otherwise, you may lose your progress. 

:::

### Tools and Starter Code
After opening a bash session in the active container, verify that the tools necessary for this tutorial are installed. 
<br />

Check the Spectro CLI version.
<br />
### Required Tools and Directories

After starting a bash session in the active container, confirm the installation of the required tools using the commands provided below. 

Check the Spectro Command Line Interface (CLI) version.

```bash
spectro version
```

Check the Spectro registry server version.
<br />

Verify the Spectro registry server version.

```bash
registry --version
```

Check the Terraform version.
<br />

```bash
terraform --version
```

In addition to these tools, the tutorials container has other tools, such as `ngrok`, `git`, and `nano`. 

Examine the directories that pertain to the current tutorial in the **root** directory. 

> <br />

Author: Section removed.

> Additionally, the tutorial container includes other tools such as `ngrok`, `git`, `nano`, `aws-cli`, and `oras`.

Reviewer: Is this something that the learner needs to know right now?

> Inspect the directories relevant to the current tutorial in the container root directory. 

Reviewer: Add a command that shows this output?

If you choose to use an OCI registry, you will need the following item.
<!--- - An active OCI registry such as [Amazon Elastic Container Registry (ECR)](https://aws.amazon.com/ecr/) or [Harbor](https://goharbor.io/).-->
- An active OCI registry such as [Amazon Elastic Container Registry (ECR)](https://aws.amazon.com/ecr/).

If you opt for an ECR OCI registry, you will require the following.

- An AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) user with the following permissions.

  - `ecr:CreateRepository`
  - `ecr:InitiateLayerUpload`
  - `ecr:CompleteLayerUpload`
  - `ecr:InitiateLayerUpload`
  - `ecr:PutImage`
  - `ecr:UploadLayerPart`
  - `ecr:BatchCheckLayerAvailability`
  - `ecr:ListImages`
  - `ecr:DescribeImages`
  - `ecr:BatchDeleteImage`
  - `ecr:DeleteRepository`

:::caution

There could be AWS expenses associated with this tutorial. After completing the tutorial, make sure to delete the infrastructure to avoid additional charges.

:::

## Set Up the Tutorial Environment

> In this tutorial, you will work in a Docker container pre-configured with the necessary tools. Alternatively, you can choose to practice the tutorial in any `linux/amd64` or `x86_64` environment by installing the [required tools](https://github.com/spectrocloud/tutorials/blob/main/docs/docker.md#docker) and cloning the [GitHub repository](https://github.com/spectrocloud/tutorials/) that contains the tutorial files. To initialize the tutorial container, follow the steps described below. 

Author: I agree. Thanks for catching this.

```bash
.
├── pack.json           # Mandatory.
├── values.yaml         # Mandatory.
├── manifests           # Mandatory.
    ├── manifest-1.yaml
    ├── manifest-2.yaml
│   └── manifest-3.yaml
├── logo.png            # Mandatory.
└── README.md           # Optional.

> ```

Reviewer: Disable copy functionality for this code snippet perhaps? https://spectrocloud.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/DE/pages/1947435009/Docusaurus+Migration#hide-clipboard

<br /> 

For your convenience, we provide you with the manifest-based pack files for the Hello Universe application. These files are located in the **packs/hello-universe-pack** folder. 

Navigate to the **packs/hello-universe-pack** directory.

```bash
cd /packs/hello-universe-pack
```

Ensure you have the following files in the current directory.

> ```bash

Reviewer: Disable copy functionality for this code snippet perhaps? https://spectrocloud.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/DE/pages/1947435009/Docusaurus+Migration#hide-clipboard

  
  <br />

* **values.yaml** -  This file contains configurable parameters you can define while adding the current pack to a cluster profile. In the **values.yaml** file for this tutorial, the `pack/namespace` attribute specifies the namespace on the target cluster to deploy the pack. If the **values.yaml** specifies a namespace value, then Palette first checks to confirm if the namespace has been created. If so, Palette uses the existing namespace. If the namespace has not yet been created, Palette creates a new one using the value specified in the YAML file. 

>   If the **values.yaml**  does not specify a namespace value, Palette deploys the application to the default namespace.

Reviewer: Wonder if we should recommend creating a new namespace?

  <br />

>   Optionally, you can define *presets*, which are predefined values to use in the **values.yaml** file. You define presets in a separate **presets.yaml** file. The presets become available when you create the cluster profile. Presets facilitate configuring the profile and avoid errors that can happen by manually editing the **values.yaml** file. Refer to [Pack Presets](pack-constraints.md#pack-presets) for details and examples of how to define presets. 

Reviewer 2: Presets are parameters you can expose in the the UI (see screenshot). When you select a preset, you alter the YAML. Take a peek at this **preset.yaml** from the prometheus-operator pack. You'll notice there is are a few parameters available `displayName`, `group`, `remove` and `add`. The last two are important because that's how you specify what YAML to inject or remove. 

You don't have to explain the behavior here, that's something we need to do on a reference page, but you can explain the UI behavior and how it's used to inject UI options (radio buttons) for pack consumers. 

https://github.com/spectrocloud/pax/blob/31ed5670679214c289caeb04fdd74414007e3f35/stable/loggging_and_monitoring/prometheus-operator-46.4.0/presets.yaml#L1-L28

![CleanShot 2023-11-22 at 10 54 45](https://github.com/spectrocloud/librarium/assets/29551334/e0e5a4e0-08be-4135-b807-4783509e5dbe)

Author: I rewrote this paragraph after our meeting.

<br />

After completing the review of all files in the pack directory, the next step is to set up a registry server, publish the pack to the registry, and configure the registry in Palette.

<br />

## Set Up the Registry Server

You can set up a registry server using either the Spectro Registry or an OCI-compliant registry. Palette supports all OCI-compliant registries, and you can refer to the [Spectro Cloud OCI Registry](https://docs.spectrocloud.com/registries-and-packs/oci-registry/) resource for more information.

> The tutorial environment already includes the Spectro registry service and other necessary tools. For OCI registries, as per the [Prerequisites](#prerequisites) section, ensure you have an active OCI registry. Two types of OCI authentication are available: **Amazon (ECR)** and **Basic**. To get started with Amazon ECR, consult the [What is ECR](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonECR/latest/userguide/what-is-ecr.html) user guide. <!-- For Basic OCI Authentication, this tutorial uses a [Harbor registry](https://goharbor.io/) as an example. However, you have the flexibility to opt for the OCI registry of your choice. Learn how to set up a Harbor registry server using the [Harbor Installation and Configuration](https://goharbor.io/docs/2.9.0/install-config/) guide.-->

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The tutorial environment already includes the Spectro registry service and other necessary tools. For OCI registries, as per the [Prerequisites](#prerequisites) section, ensure you have an active OCI registry. Two types of OCI authentication are available: **Amazon (ECR)** and **Basic**. To learn more about Amazon ECR, consult the [What is ECR](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonECR/latest/userguide/what-is-ecr.html) user guide. <!-- For Basic OCI Authentication, this tutorial uses a [Harbor registry](https://goharbor.io/) as an example. However, you have the flexibility to opt for the OCI registry of your choice. Learn how to set up a Harbor registry server using the [Harbor Installation and Configuration](https://goharbor.io/docs/2.9.0/install-config/) guide.-->
```

To get started didn't feel right because you are about to explain how.

> The following sections will guide you through starting the registry server, logging in, pushing your custom add-on pack, and, finally, configuring the registry server in Palette.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following sections will guide you through starting the registry server, authentication, pushing your custom add-on pack, and, finally, configuring the registry server in Palette. Select the tab below that matches the registry type you want to use.
```

registry serve /etc/spectro/config.yml > /var/log/registry.log 2>&1 &
```

The registry server starts in HTTP mode. If you want to deploy an HTTPS registry server, refer to the [Add a Custom Registry](adding-a-custom-registry.md) guide. 

Next, make the registry server accessible to the public using [Ngrok](https://ngrok.com/) reverse proxy so that you can configure it later in Palette. Execute the command below to expose the registry server listening on port 5000 via an HTTP tunnel. 

```bash
ngrok http 5000 --log-level debug
```

This command reserves the current bash session and displays the status of each HTTP request made to the Ngrok server. The image below shows the registry server successfully exposed via Ngrok.  

![Screenshot of registry server exposed via ngrok](/tutorials/deploy-pack/registries-and-packs_deploy-pack_ngrok-start.png )

Check if the registry server is accessible from outside the tutorial container by visiting the `/health` endpoint. Open your browser and go to *https://Your-URL-Here/health*, replacing the base URL with the Ngrok URL output. You should get a `{"status":"UP"}` response.

</TabItem>

<TabItem label="ECR" value="ECR_Registry">

<br />

> An Amazon ECR private registry is provided to each AWS account, allowing the creation of repositories within it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
This sentence is not quite correct, as a user would have to create their own ECR registry. Probably best to remove it.

Author: I used the info available on the [ECR Documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonECR/latest/userguide/what-is-ecr.html) page. We cannot create ECR registries; instead, AWS provides us with one, and we can create repositories within it. However, I agree that this sentence can confuse the user, so I removed it from the tutorial.

```bash
export AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=<Your_Access_Key_ID>
export AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=<Your_Secret_Access_Key>
export AWS_DEFAULT_REGION=<Your_Default_Region>
```

Next, export the variables below, which you will use later to create the ECR repository and push the pack.

- `REGISTRY_NAME` - the name of your ECR registry. This tutorial uses **spectro-oci-registry**.
- `NAME` - the pack's name, which must match the name in the **pack.json** file. 
- `VERSION` - the pack's version, which must match the version in the **pack.json** file.
- `ACCOUNT_ID` - your AWS account ID, containing only numerical digits and no dashes.

```bash
export REGISTRY_NAME=spectro-oci-registry
export NAME=hellouniverse
export VERSION=1.0.0
export ACCOUNT_ID=<Your_AWS_Account_ID>
```

Create a base path repository to store your pack repositories using the AWS CLI, which is already installed in the tutorial container. Follow the provided structure below.

```bash
aws ecr create-repository --repository-name $REGISTRY_NAME/spectro-packs/archive --region $AWS_DEFAULT_REGION
```

Next, create the repository to store the Hello Universe pack.

> 

Reviewer 2: Maybe we should add a callout box explaining the path `spectro-packs/archive`, that seems to be important.

Author: Done.

![Screenshot of Harbor login](/tutorials/deploy-pack/registries-and-packs_deploy-pack_harbor-login.png)

Next, go to the **Projects** section and click on **New Project**. A project in Harbor contains all repositories of an application. This tutorial uses **spectro-oci-registry** as the project name. Leave the other settings as default and click on **OK**.

![Screenshot of Harbor project](/tutorials/deploy-pack/registries-and-packs_deploy-pack_harbor-project.png)

</TabItem> -->

</Tabs>

<br /> 

### Log in to the Registry Server

<Tabs groupId="registry-server">

<TabItem label="Spectro Registry" value="Spectro_Registry">

<br />

Once the `/health` endpoint of the registry server displays an `UP` status, proceed to the authentication step. In a new terminal window, start another bash session in the tutorial container.  

```bash
docker exec -it tutorialContainer bash
```

Log in to the registry server using the Ngrok public URL assigned to you. Issue the following command, replacing the URL with your Ngrok URL. The command below uses these credentials to log in to the registry server: `{username: admin, password: admin}`.

```bash

> spectro registry login  --insecure --default --username admin --password admin \

Reviewer: What is the purpose of the `--insecure` flag? And is it required? (I know you mention this later on, but might be good to clarify here)

Reviewer: Yes it's explained further down in the doc, but I was just saying it's not explained at this point and might a user question.

Author: I added a short sentence explaining the flag.

For assistance with Spectro CLI commands, refer to the [Spectro CLI Commands](spectro-cli-reference.md#commands) guide. 
<br /> 

</TabItem>

<TabItem label="ECR" value="ECR_Registry">

<br />

Once you are authenticated to your ECR registry, navigate to the **packs** directory, which contains the pack folder, **hello-universe-pack**.

```bash
cd /packs
```

Before pushing the pack to the registry, compress the contents of the pack folder into an archive file. Issue the command below to create the archive file.

```bash
tar -czvf $NAME-$VERSION.tar.gz hello-universe-pack
```

Now, proceed to push the **Hello Universe** pack to the ECR registry.

```bash
oras push $ACCOUNT_ID.dkr.ecr.$AWS_DEFAULT_REGION.amazonaws.com/$REGISTRY_NAME/spectro-packs/archive/$NAME:$VERSION $NAME-$VERSION.tar.gz
```

You can use the `aws ecr describe-images` command to check if the pushed pack is listed in your ECR repository.

```bash
aws ecr describe-images --repository-name $REGISTRY_NAME/spectro-packs/archive/$NAME --region $AWS_DEFAULT_REGION
```

The image below displays the output of the `aws ecr describe-images` command, confirming the presence of the Hello Universe pack in the repository.

> ![Screenshot of the output of the command aws ecr describe-images](/tutorials/deploy-pack/registries-and-packs_deploy-pack_pack-describe.png)

Reviewer 2: We can use code ticks with this output instead of using a screenshot. You can highlight the three lines.  Checkout this [part](https://docusaurus.io/docs/markdown-features/code-blocks#highlighting-with-metadata-string) of the Docusarus docs.

Author: Done. What did you think? :)

|**Pack Type**|**Registry Type**|**Registry Name**|**Pack Name**|**Pack Version**| 
|---|---|---|---|---|
|App Services | Spectro Registry | spectro-pack-registry | Hello Universe | `1.0.x` |
|App Services | ECR | ecr-registry | Hello Universe | `1.0.x` |

<!--|App Services | Basic | harbor-registry | Hello Universe | `1.0.x` |-->

Click on the **Confirm & Create** button to finish adding the Hello Universe pack.

If there are no errors or compatibility issues, Palette displays the cluster profile. Verify the layers you added, and click **Next**.   

![Screenshot of the Profile Layers success.](/tutorials/deploy-pack/registries-and-packs_deploy-pack_profile-layer.png)

#### Review

Review the cluster layers and click on **Finish Configuration** to complete the creation of the cluster profile. 
<br />

### Create a Cluster

Navigate to the **Profiles** page and select the recently created cluster profile. Click on the **Deploy** button to start the deployment of a new cluster.

<br />

> #### Basic information

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Basic Information
```

For the first section, **Basic information**, use the following values.

|**Field**|**Value**|
|---|---|
|Cluster name| pack-tutorial-cluster |
|Description| Cluster as part of the Deploy a Custom Pack tutorial.|
|Tags|`spectro-cloud-education, app:hello-universe, terraform_managed:false`|

> |Cloud Account|spectro-cloud|

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|Cloud Account| Select the cloud you have registered in Palette for AWS |
```

> Note that the AWS cloud account name utilized in this tutorial is **spectro-cloud**. If you have used a different cloud account name, select the one configured in your Palette's project settings. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

We can use the field description to explain this.

<br />

</TabItem>

<TabItem label="Terraform Workflow" value="Terraform_Workflow">

The [Spectro Cloud Terraform Provider](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/spectrocloud/spectrocloud/latest/docs) allows you to create and manage Palette resources using Infrastructure as Code (IaC). This approach offers several advantages, including automating infrastructure, facilitating collaboration, documenting infrastructure, and keeping a single source of truth for all infrastructure.

### Starter Code

Return to your tutorial container bash session to locate the starter Terraform files. If you have closed the terminal session, you can open another bash session in the tutorial container using the following command. 

```bash
docker exec -it tutorialContainer bash
```
<br />

Navigate to the **/terraform/pack-tf** directory, which contains the Terraform code for this tutorial. 

```bash
cd /terraform/pack-tf
```
<br />

### Set Up the Spectro Cloud API Key

> To get started with Terraform code, you need a Spectro Cloud API key to authenticate and interact with the Palette API endpoint. To add a new API key, log in to Palette, click on the **User Menu** at the top right, and select **My API Keys**, as shown in the screenshot below. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To get started with Terraform code, you need a Palette API key to authenticate and interact with the Palette API endpoint. To add a new API key, log in to Palette, click on the **User Menu** at the top right, and select **My API Keys**, as shown in the screenshot below.  
```
Let's also link to the API Key how-to
https://docs.spectrocloud.com/user-management/authentication/api-key/create-api-key

> Note that the Terraform code will deploy the resources to **AWS**. 

Reviewer 2: Make this a callout box

We recommend that you explore all Terraform files. Below is a high-level overview of each file.
<br />

-  **profile.tf** - contains the configuration for the `spectrocloud_cluster_profile` resource. Review the core infrastructure layers that make up the `spectrocloud_cluster_profile` resource. 

-  **cluster.tf** - contains the configuration for the `spectrocloud_cluster_aws` resource. The cluster resource depends on the `spectrocloud_cluster_profile` resource. 

- **data.tf** - contains the configuration for the resources to retrieve data from Palette dynamically. The table below lists the pack details required for each pack layer in order to deploy the `spectrocloud_cluster_profile` resource. 

  |**Pack Type**|**Registry**|**Pack Name**|**Tag**| **Version** |
  |---|---|---|---|---|
  |OS|Public Repo|`ubuntu-aws`|`LTS__22.4.x`| `22.04`|
  |Kubernetes|Public Repo|`kubernetes`|`1.28.x`| `1.28.2` |
  |Network|Public Repo|`cni-calico`|`3.26.x`|`3.26.1`|
  |Storage|Public Repo|`csi-aws-ebs`|`1.22.x`|`1.22.0`|

>   |Authentication|Public Repo|`spectro-proxy`|`1.4.x`|`1.4.1`|

Reviewer 2: Carolina, let's take out the Spectro Proxy pack from the Terraform code. If will break if the users tries to use the kubeconfig file with kubectl. The reason it breaks is because the k8s layer YAML needs the certSAN config parameter. As added in the UI workflow. So let's remove it here and from the code.

  |App Services|Private Repo|`hellouniverse`|`1.0.x`|`1.0.0`|

- **inputs.tf** - contains the variables used in the tutorial, such as the names of cluster profile, cluster, cloud account, SSH key name, AWS region, pack name, and registry server. 

  Some variables have a default value, but you *must* provide the values for the `cluster_cloud_account_aws_name`, `aws_region_name`, `ssh_key_name`, and `private_pack_registry` variables. You will find a `#ToDo` tag next to each variable that needs updating. Provide the values for these variables in a separate file, **terraform.tfvars**. Use the default values for the remaining variables.

- **terraform.tfvars** - contains the variable definitions. The list of variables is outlined in the code block below. You *must* specify the values for all variables marked as `"REPLACE ME"`. Read the inline comments below to understand each variable. 

>   - For example, the value for  `cluster_cloud_account_aws_name` should be the name of the cloud account added to your Palette project settings. In this tutorial, the cloud account name is **spectro-cloud**. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - For example, the value for  `cluster_cloud_account_aws_name` should be the name of the cloud account added to your Palette project settings.
```

Let's not put our name as it can confuse the reader.

  
  - For `aws_region_name`, you can choose any [AWS region](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/UserGuide/Concepts.RegionsAndAvailabilityZones.html) for your deployment. This tutorial uses the **us-east-1** region.

  - For `aws_az_names`, you should specify the AWS availability zone (AZ) name in which you want the cluster to be available. By default, this tutorial uses the first available AZ in the region.
  

>   - The value for `ssh_key_name` should be the name of the SSH key available in the region where you will deploy the cluster. The SSH key name used in this example is **aws_key_sk_us_east_1**. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - The value for `ssh_key_name` should be the name of the AWS SSH key pair available in the region where you will deploy the cluster.  
```
Let's remove the example key, as it's not referenced anywhere.

<br /> 

### Deploy Terraform

After updating the **terraform.tfvars** file and carefully reviewing the other files, initialize the Terraform provider.

```bash
terraform init
```

The `init` command downloads the plugins and providers from the **provider.tf** file. Next, use the `plan` command to preview the resources that Terraform will create. 

```bash
terraform plan
```

The output displays the resources that Terraform will create in an actual implementation. 

> ```bash

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```bash hideClipboard
```

# Output condensed for readability
Plan: 2 to add, 0 to change, 0 to destroy.
```

Complete the creation of all the resources. 

```bash
terraform apply -auto-approve
```

It can take up to 20 minutes to provision the cluster. Once the cluster provisioning is complete, the following message displays. 

> ```bash

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```bash hideClipboard
```

# Output condensed for readability
Apply complete! Resources: 2 added, 0 changed, 0 destroyed.
```

You can monitor the progress of the cluster deployment in the Palette interface.

#### Check the In-Progress Deployment
Log in to [Palette](https://console.spectrocloud.com/) and navigate to the **Profile** section in the left **Main Menu**. If the Terraform deployment is successful, the newly created cluster profile is displayed as shown in the screenshot below. 

![Screenshot of the successful Profile in Palette.](/tutorials/deploy-pack/registries-and-packs_deploy-pack_verify-profile.png)

> 

Reviewer 2: Wouldn't it make more sense to view the cluster vs the cluster profile?  Otherwise this section is not really helpful and could be removed.

Author: Yes, indeed. I removed the cluster profile example and added a cluster example.

<br />

####  Delete the Registry Server

After deleting the cluster and cluster profile, navigate to the **Tenant Settings** > **Registries** > **Pack Registries** section in Palette to remove the registry configuration.

![Screenshot of registry server delete in Palette](/tutorials/deploy-pack/registries-and-packs_deploy-pack_registry-delete.png)

> Now, delete the registry server. If you used the Spectro registry, stop the registry server by closing the tutorial container bash session that serves the Ngrok reverse proxy server. If you used the ECR registry, refer to the [Deleting a private repository](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonECR/latest/userguide/repository-delete.html) guide to delete the ECR repositories. <!--Finally, if you used a Basic registry, such as Harbor, delete your Harbor registry. If you hosted the Harbor registry on a virtual machine, for example, ensure to delete the virtual machine according to your setup.-->

Reviewer 2: If the user created an AWS ECR registry with the AWS CLI through our guidance, then we should also help them delete the ECR registry.  Give them the commands to clean up the registry by removing the uploaded assets and then deleting the ecr registry. 

Remember, you have to remove everything from the ECR registry before AWS will allow you to delete it. Check out the [ecr-cleanup.sh](https://github.com/spectrocloud/docs-deploy-templates/blob/main/scripts/ecr-cleanup.sh) script I created in our template repo for an example of the commands. Keep in mind my script blows away EVERYTHING and no recommended for this use case where we need to specify the repository.

Author: I added the commands to delete the pack and the repositories, along with their output. However, the output is a little lengthy. What do you think?
